# Linux Commands Cheat sheet

### You can also try some of the commands on the Virtual MAchines or the Terminals that are freely Avaialable

Here are some of the Terminals Avaialblable Online.

[Tutorial Point](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/linux_terminal_online.php)

[cocalc](https://cocalc.com/features/terminal)

And many more, just Google **"linix terminal online"** you will be able to get it"

**Simple Trick -** Look for some similarities in the Vim and the Git Use cases here.

- `uname -a` : List all the system level Information about the Operating System. -> Works well for both linux and Unix.

So now we have the *'Hello world'* Program done,so now lets go and get the part started

`ssh` | ssh (SSH client) is a program for logging into a remote machine and for executing commands on a remote machine.  

**Example:** 

ssh username@<ip> would give you the terminal to acess the VM and then you will be able to enter the password and you will be able to get the acess to the VM.


Command | Usage 
:-: | ---
`ls` | List  information  about  the FILEs (the current directory by default).
`cd` | Change Directory
`top` | One of the mainstays of Unix-like operating systems is the Linux top command. The information on your system's operating processes and resource use is abundant in its utilitarian display.
`cat` | Concatenate files and print on the standard output
`file` | determine file type(any type of file with the type of datatype that it incorpoerates)
`du` | estimate file space usage
`find`| search for files in a directory hierarchy
`grep` | print lines that match patterns(more about it in the finding section)
`sort` | sort lines of text files
`uniq` | report or omit repeated lines from the commands
`strings` | print the sequences of printable characters in files
`base64` | base64 encode/decode data and print to standard output --> "base64 encruptipyion and decruption happens with the command on the system"
`tr` | Translate, squeeze, and/or delete characters from standard input, writing to standard output.
`tar` | an archiving utility
`gzip` | compress or expand files
`bzip2` | a block-sorting file compressor
`xxd` | make a hexdump or do the reverse.
`mkdir` | make directories
`cp` | copy files and directories
`mv` | move files and directories
`telnet` | The telnet command is used for interactive communication with another host using the TELNET protocol
`nc` | netcat is a simple unix utility which reads and writes data across network connections, using TCP or UDP protocol.
`openssl` | OpenSSL command line tool
`s_client` | The s_client command implements a generic SSL/TLS client which connects to a remote host using SSL/TLS. It is a very useful diagnostic tool for SSL servers.
`nmap` | Network exploration tool and security / port scanner
`diff` | compare files line by line
`bash` | Bash  is  an  sh-compatible  command language interpreter
`screen` | Screen is a full-screen window manager that multiplexes a physical terminal between several processes
`tmux` | tmux is a terminal multiplexer: it enables a number of terminals to be created, accessed, and controlled from a single screen. 
`bg` | background a process
`fg` | foreground a process
`jobs` | list processes running in background
`&` | run a command in background
`cron` |  daemon to execute scheduled commands
`crontab` | maintain crontab files for individual users
`crontab(5)` | tables for driving cron
`more` | file perusal filter for crt viewing
`less` | opposite of more
`vi` | vim - Vim IMproved, a programmer's text editor
`vim` | vim - Vim IMproved, a programmer's text editor
`id` | print real and effective user and group IDs
`pwd` | print working directory
`git` | the stupid content tracker
`locate` | find files by name, quickly
`man` | an interface to the system reference manuals
`which` | locate a command
`type` | lets you query the type of each command.
`ps` | report a snapshot of the current processes.
`kill` | send a signal to a process
`uname` | print system information 
`chmod` | change file mode bits
`chown` | change file owner and group
`chgrp` | change group ownership
`tail` | output the last part of files
`ln` | make link between files
---

## Some commands REquired while Debugging the Code or the kubernetes Cluster in Production

> - `cat ./-` (./ - stands for current directory) : cat a file with name "-"
> - `cat ./-filename` : cat a file whose name starts with "-" 
> - `cat \spaces \in \this \filename.txt` (Original filename: `spaces in this filename.txt` ) - cat a file name with spaces
> - `base64 -d data.txt` - base64 decode a file
> - `strings filename` - output human readable text from non-humanreadable file: 
> - `echo "acbefghijklmn ashlakshlaksjd jaskldaskldjals" |  tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m'` - rotate a text with all lowercase and uppercase by 13 positions: 
> - `openssl s_client -connect <host>:<port>` : connect a host with ssl encryption(this is the connection to the client)
> - `diff fileone filetwo` : check difference
> - `tail -n <number of lines> <path & file name>` : print last n lines of a file
> - `ln -s tmp/files/take-the-command-challenge take-the-command-challenge` : Create a symbolic link named take-the-command-challenge that points to the file tmp/files/take-the-command-challenge.
> - `find . -delete` : Delete all of the files in this challenge directory including all subdirectories and their contents.
> - `grep -rl 500`: `-r` for Recursive, read all files in given directory and subdirectories & `-l` for Print the name of each file which contains a match.
> - `grep -e regex` -  file	Match the regex pattern
> - `grep -a pattern file` - Search into binary files
> - `grep -r pattern dir` - Recursively search into directory

-----

`Note: These are my notes for personal referenced - required while budugging some thing in production`

## Basics


- `cd` shortcuts

Shortcut | Result
---|---
cd | Changes the working directory to your home directory.
cd - | Changes the working directory to the previous working directory.
cd ~user_name | Changes the working directory to the home directory of user_name. For example, typing cd ~bob will change the directory to the home directory of user “bob.”

---

- `ls` : List directory contents
>   - `ls -l`: output in long format
>   - `ls -t`: the t option to sort the result by the file’s modification time.
>   - `ls -lt --reverse`: --reverse to reverse the order of the sort.


Some Keyboard Shortcuts for the 

Command | Action
--- | ---
`PAGE UP` or `b` | Scroll back one page
`PAGE DOWN` or `space` | Scroll forward one page
`Up arrow` | Scroll up one line
`Down arrow` | Scroll down one line
`G` | Move to the end of the text file
`1G` or `g` | Move to the beginning of the text file
`/characters` | Search forward to the next occurrence of characters
`n` | Search for the next occurrence of the previous search
`h` | Display help screen
`q` | Quit less


---


## Mainipulation of the files in the Directory

- Wildcards:

Wildcards | Meaning
--- | ---
`*` | Matches any character
`?` | Matches any single character
`[characters]` | Matches any character that is a member of the set characters
`[!characters]` | Matches any character that is not a member of the set characters
`[:class:]` | Matches any character that is member of the specified class

- List of most commonly used character classes

Character class | Meaning
--- | ---
`[:alnum:]` | Matches any alphanumeric character
`[:alpha:]` | Matches any alphabetic characters
`[:digit:]` | Matches any numerical
`[:lower:]` | Matches any lowercase letter
`[:upper:]` | Matches any uppercase


- Wildcard examples:

Pattern | Matches
--- | ---
`*` | All files
`g*` | Any file beginning with g
`b*.txt` | Any file beginning with b followed by any characters and ending with .txt
`Data???` | Any file beginning with Data followed by exactly three characters
`[abc]*` | 	Any file beginning with either an a, a b, or a c
`BACKUP.[0-9][0-9][0-9]` | Any file beginning with BACKUP. followed by exactly three numerals
`[[:upper:]]*` | Any file beginning with an uppercase letter
`[![:digit:]]*` | Any file not beginning with a numeral
`*[[:lower:]123]` | Any file ending with a lowercase letter or the numerals 1, 2, or 3

- `Wildcards can be used with any command that accepts filenames as arguments`

---

- `mkdir` - make directory
    - `mkdir dir` - single directory
    - `mkdir dir1 dir2 dir3` - multiple directories
    
    
```

└─$ mkdir commandline
                                                                                       

└─$ ls          
list of Files

└─$ mkdir dir1 dir2 dir3
                                                                                       
└─$ ls
dir1  dir2  dir3
```

---

- `cp` - copy files and directories
    - `cp item1 item2` : copy single file item1 into item2
    - `cp item... directory` : copies multiple items (either files or directories) into a directory.

Option | Meaning
--- | ---
`-a`,`--archive` | Copy the files and directories and all of their attributes, including ownerships and permissions.
`-i`, `--interactive` | Before overwriting an existing file, prompt the user for confirmation. 
`-r`, `--recursive` | Recursively copy directories and their contents. This option (or the -a option) is required when copying directories.
`-u`, `--update` | When copying files from one directory to another, only copy files that either don’t exist or are newer than the existing corresponding files in the destination directory. This is useful when copying large numbers of files as it skips files that don’t need to be copied
`-v`, `--verbose` | Display informative messages as the copy is performed.

- `mv` is same as `cp`

---

- `rm file` : remove files and directories


Option | Meaning
--- | ---
`-i`, `--interactive` | Before deleting an existing file, prompt the user for confirmation.
`-r`, `--recursive` | Recursively delete directories. This means that if a directory being deleted has subdirectories, delete them too. To delete a directory, this option must be specified.
`-f`, `--force` | Ignore nonexistent files and do not prompt. This overrides the --interactive option.
`-v`, `--verbose` | Display informative messages as the deletion is performed.

---

- `ln` : create links
    - `ln file link` : create a hard link
    - `ln -s item link` : creates a symbolic link

---


## Working with the commands

- `type`: is a shell builtin that displays the kind of command the shell will execute

```

$ type ls      
ls is an alias for ls --color=auto
                                                                                       
└─$ type ssh
ssh is /usr/bin/var
                                                                                       
└─$ type cd 
cd is a shell builtin
                          
```
---

- `which` : Display an Executable’s Location
```
                                                                                       
└─$ which cd 
cd: shell built-in command
                                                                                       
└─$ which gedit
/usr/bin/gedit

                       
```

---

- `man` : Display a Program’s Manual Page

```
└─$ man ls         
```

This output is from the CMD Terminal

```
LS(1)                               User Commands                              LS(1)

NAME
       ls - list directory contents

SYNOPSIS
       ls [OPTION]... [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       List  information  about  the FILEs (the current directory by default).  Sort
       entries alphabetically if none of -cftuvSUX nor --sort is specified.

       Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

       -a, --all
              do not ignore entries starting with .

       -A, --almost-all
              do not list implied . and ..

       --author
              with -l, print the author of each file

 Manual page ls(1) line 1 (press h for help or q to quit)

```

---

- `apropos` - Display Appropriate Commands

```
└─$ apropos copy            
cifsdd (8)           - convert and copy a file over SMB
COPY (7)             - copy data between a file and a table
cp (1)               - copy files and directories
cpgr (8)             - copy with locking the given file to the password or group file
cpio (1)             - copy files to and from archives
cppw (8)             - copy with locking the given file to the password or group file
dd (1)               - convert and copy a file
debconf-copydb (1)   - copy a debconf database
git-checkout-index (1) - Copy files from the index to the working tree
gvfs-copy (1)        - Deprecated equivalent of gio copy
install (1)          - copy files and set attributes
ntfscp (8)           - copy file to an NTFS volume.
objcopy (1)          - copy and translate object files
ptrepack (1)         - Copy any PyTables Leaf, Group or complete subtree into anothe...
rcp (1)              - OpenSSH secure file copy
rsync (1)            - a fast, versatile, remote (and local) file-copying tool
scp (1)              - OpenSSH secure file copy
ssh-copy-id (1)      - use locally available keys to authorise logins on a remote ma...
svnversion (1)       - Produce a compact version identifier for a working copy.
vfs_shadow_copy (8)  - Expose snapshots to Windows clients as shadow copies.
vfs_shadow_copy2 (8) - Expose snapshots to Windows clients as shadow copies.
x86_64-linux-gnu-objcopy (1) - copy and translate object files
                                                                                       
```

---

- `whatis` : Display One-line Manual Page Descriptions

```
└─$ whatis rm    
rm (1)               - remove files or directories
                                                                                       
└─$ whatis ls
ls (1)               - list directory contents
                                                                                       
└─$ whatis sudo
sudo (8)             - execute a command as another user
                            
```

---

- `info` : Display a Program’s Info Entry

```
                                                                                       
└─$ info ls
gives infomation about the commands ls

```

```
Next: dir invocation,  Up: Directory listing

10.1 ‘ls’: List directory contents
==================================

The ‘ls’ program lists information about files (of any type, including
directories).  Options and file arguments can be intermixed arbitrarily,
as usual.

   For non-option command-line arguments that are directories, by
default ‘ls’ lists the contents of directories, not recursively, and
omitting files with names beginning with ‘.’.  For other non-option
arguments, by default ‘ls’ lists just the file name.  If no non-option
argument is specified, ‘ls’ operates on the current directory, acting as
if it had been invoked with a single argument of ‘.’.

   By default, the output is sorted alphabetically, according to the
locale settings in effect.(1)  If standard output is a terminal, the
output is in columns (sorted vertically) and control characters are
output as question marks; otherwise, the output is listed one per line
and control characters are output as-is.

-----Info: (coreutils)ls invocation, 56 lines --Top------------------------------------
Follow xref: gument is specified, ‘ls’ operates on the current directory, acting asif 


---

- `alias` : Creating Our Own Commands with alias
    - `trick: It’s possible to put more than one command on a line by separating each command with a semicolon`
    - `command1; command2; command3...`

```
└─$ cd /usr; ls; cd -
bin  games  include  lib  local  sbin  share  src
/home/me
```

└─$ type foo
bash: type: foo: not found
```
```
└─$ alias foo='cd /usr; ls; cd -'
└─$ foo
bin  games  include  lib  local  sbin  share  src
/home/me

└─$ type foo
foo is aliased to `cd /usr; ls; cd -'
```
```
└─$ unalias foo
└─$ type foo
bash: type: foo: not found
```

---


## Redicrections

- `<command> > <file>` : Redirecting Standard Output

```
└─$ ls -l /usr/bin > ls-output.txt
                                                                                       
└─$ ls -l                         
list all about the read and the write operations
                                                                   
```

---

- `command >> file` - append redirected output to a file instead of overwriting the file

```
└─$ ls -l /usr/bin >> ls-output.txt
```

---

- `0>` OR `<` : redirecting standard input
- `>` : redirecting standard output
- `2>` : redirecting standard error

```
└─$ ls -l /bin/usr 2> ls-error.txt
```

---

- `ls -l /bin/usr > ls-output.txt 2>&1` OR ` ls -l /bin/usr &> ls-output.txt`: Redirecting Standard Output and Standard Error to One File
- `ls -l /bin/usr 2> /dev/null` : Disposing unwanted output

---

- `command1 | command2` : Pipeline to seperate two command for the lesser operations in the terminal
- `wc` : Print line, Word, and Byte counts
- `grep` : print line matching pattern
- `head -n <number of lines> ls-output.txt` : print initial lines of file
- `tail -n <number of lines> ls-output.txt` : print last lines of files 
- `tee` : Read from Stdin and Output to Stdout and Files
- `grep -i 'keyword' 'file'` : comand to find the keyowrd in the file,the file can be from the other extension.

```

└─$ wc ls-output.txt 
  2557  24294 171639 ls-output.txt

```

└─$ head -n 5 ls-output.txt

---

## seeing the world through the shell scripts

- `echo` : Display a line of text
    - `echo *` : works same as `ls`
    - `echo D*` : Display files/directories which starts with D
    - `echo *s` : Display files/drectories which ends with s
    - `echo [[:upper:]]*` : Display files/directories that starts with uppercase letters 
    - `echo /usr/*/share` : display all directories between /usr/ & /share
    - `echo ~` : tilde expansion



Operator | Description
--- | ---
`+` | Addition
`-` | Subtraction
`*` | Multiplication
`/` | Division (but remember, since expansion supports only integer arithmetic, results are integers)
`%` | Modulo, which simply means “remainder”
`**` | Exponentiation

- Brace Expansion: create multiple text strings from a pattern containing braces


## Advanced Kyeboard Tricks

- `clear` : Clear the terminal screen
- `history` : Display or manipulate the history list

- Cursor Movement:

Key | Action
--- | ---
`CTRL-A` | Move the cursor to the beginning of line
`CTRL-E` | Move cursor to the end of the line
`CTRL-F` | Move cursor forward one character; same as the right arrow key
`CTRL-B` | Move cursor backward one character; same as the left arrow key
`ALT-F` | Move cursor one word forward
`ALT-B` | Move cursor backward one word
`CTRL-L` | Clear screen and move the cursor to the top left corner. Same as `clear` command

---
- Modifying Text


Key | Action
--- | ---
`CTRL-D` | Delete the character at the cursor location
`CTRL-T` | Transpose the character at the cursor location
`ALT-T` | Transpose the word at the cursor location with the one preceding it.
`ALT-L` | Convert the characters from the cursor location to the end of the word to lowercase.
`ALT-U` | Convert the characters from the cursor location to the end of the word to uppercase.

---

- History Expansion

Sequence | Action
--- | ---
`!!` | Repeat the last command. It is probably easier to press the up arrow and ENTER
`!number` | Repeat history list item `number`.
`!string` | Repeat last history list item starting with `string`
`!?string` | Repeat last history list item containing  `string`


---

## Permissions

(Root and Non Root User Permissions)

- `id` : Display user identity
- `chmod` : Change a file’s mode
- `umask` : Set the default file permissions
- `su` : Run a shell as another user
- `sudo` : Execute a command as another user
- `chown`: Change a file’s owner
- `chgrp`: Change a file’s group ownership
- `passwd`: Change a user’s password

- Permission attribute Examples:

File Attributes | Meaning
--- | ---
`-rwx------` | A regular file that is readable, writable, and executable by the file’s owner. No one else has any access.
`-rw-------` | A regular file that is readable and writable by the file’s owner. No one else has any access.
`-rw-r--r--` | A regular file that is readable and writable by the file’s owner. Members of the file’s owner group may read the file. The file is world-readable.
`-rwxr-xr-x` | A regular file that is readable, writable, and executable by the file’s owner. The file may be read and executed by everybody else.
`-rw-rw----` | A regular file that is readable and writable by the file’s owner and members of the file’s group owner only.
`lrwxrwxrwx` | A symbolic link. All symbolic links have “dummy” permissions. The real permissions are kept with the actual file pointed to by the symbolic link.
`drwxrwx---` | A directory. The owner and the members of the owner group may enter the directory and create, rename, and remove files within the directory.
`drwxr-x---` | A directory. The owner may enter the directory and create, rename, and delete files within the directory. Members of the owner group may enter the directory but cannot create, delete, or rename files.

---

- `chmod` : Change File Mode
    - 6(rw-) -  read and write
    - 7(rwx) -  read and write and execute
    - 5(r-x) -  read and no write and execute
    - 4(r--) -  read only and no write and no execute
    - 0(---) -  no execute function
    
Symbol | Meaning
--- | ---
`u` | Short for "user" but means the file or directory owner.
`g` | Group owner
`o` | Short for "others" but means world
`a` | Short for "all". This is a combination of `u`, `g`, and `o`.

- If no character is specified, “all” will be assumed. The operation may be a + indicating that a permission is to be added, a - indicating that a permission is to be taken away, or a = indicating that only the specified permissions are to be applied and that all others are to be removed.

Notation | Meaning
--- | ---
`u+x` | Add execute permission for the owner.
`u-x` | Remove execute permission from the owner.
`+x` | Add execute permission for the owner, group, and world. This is equivalent to a+x.
`o-rw` | Remove the read and write permissions from anyone besides the owner and group owner.
`go=rw` | Set the group owner and anyone besides the owner to have read and write permissions. If either the group owner or the world previously had execute permission, it is removed.
`u+x,go=rx` | Add execute permission for the owner and set the permissions for the group and others to read and execute. Multiple specifications may be separated by commas.

---


## Processes

- `ps` : Report a snapshot of current processes
- `top` : Display tasks
- `jobs` : List active jobs
- `bg` : Place a job in the background
- `fg` : Place a job in the foreground
- `kill` : Send a signal to a process
- `killall` : Kill process by name
- `shutdown` : Shut down or reboot the system



=========



## Networking

- `ping` : Checks if a network is reachable, `ping` command sends a special network packet called an `ICMP ECHO_REQUEST` to a specified host. Most network devices receiving this packet will reply to it, allowing the network connection to be verified.

```

└─$ ping youtube.com   
PING youtube.com (*some ip*) 56(84) bytes of data.
                                                                    
```

---

- `traceroute` : lists all the “hops” network traffic takes to get from the local system to a specified host.

```
└─$ traceroute google.com
```

---

- `ip a` : It replaces the earlier and now deprecated `ifconfig` program. 

```

└─$ ip a    

1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 655g6 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
    link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00
    inet 127.0.0.1/7 scope host lo
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 ::1/128 scope host 
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever

2: eth0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc pfifo_fast state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 00:0x:2x:cx:8x:x0 brd xf:xf:xf:xf:xf:xf
    inet 192.168.x.x/24 brd 192.168.x.x scope global dynamic noprefixroute eth0
       valid_lft 1630sec preferred_lft 1630sec
    inet6 fe80::20c:29ff:x:x/64 scope link noprefixroute 
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever

```

---

- `netstat` : The netstat program is used to examine various network settings and statistics.
    - `-r` option will display the kernel’s network routing table
    - `ie` : we can examine the network interfaces in our system

```

└─$ netstat -ie                   
Kernel Interface table
eth0: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 192.168.x.x  netmask 255.255.255.0  broadcast 192.x.x.25
        inet6 2a0::2c:29ff:x:x  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x20<link>
        ether xx:xc:xx:cx:8:ax  txqueuelen 1000  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 102  bytes 11285 (11.0 KiB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 207  bytes 17003 (16.6 KiB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

lo: flags=73<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING>  mtu 65536
        inet 127.0.0.1  netmask 255.0.0.0
        inet6 ::1  prefixlen 128  scopeid 0x10<host>
        loop  txqueuelen 1000  (Local Loopback)
        RX packets 8  bytes 400 (400.0 B)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 8  bytes 400 (400.0 B)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0
        
                                                                                                       

└─$ netstat -r 
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
default         192.x.xx.x      0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth0
192.x.xx.x      0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth0


```

---

Transporting Files over a Network
    
- `ftp` : `ftp` is used to communicate with FTP servers, machines that contain files that can be uploaded and downloaded over a network. `FTP` (in its original form) is not secure because it sends account names and passwords in cleartext.

```
└─$ ftp fileserver
Connected to fileserver.localdomain.
220 (vsFTPd 2.0.1)
Name (fileserver:me): anonymous
331 Please specify the password.
Password:
230 Login successful.
Remote system type is UNIX.
Using binary mode to transfer files.
ftp> cd pub/cd_images/ubuntu-18.04
250 Directory successfully changed.
ftp> ls
200 PORT command successful. Consider using PASV.
150 Here comes the directory listing.
-rw-rw-r--    1 500      500      733072 Apr 25 03:53 ubuntu-18.04-desktop-amd64.iso
226 Directory send OK.
ftp> lcd Desktop
Local directory now /home/vishwas/Desktop
ftp> get ubuntu-18.04-desktop-amd64.iso
local: ubuntu-18.04-desktop-amd64.iso remote: ubuntu-18.04-desktop-amd64.iso
200 PORT command successful. Consider using PASV.
150 Opening BINARY mode data connection for ubuntu-18.04-desktop-amd64.iso (733079552 bytes).
226 File send OK.
733079552 bytes received in 68.56 secs (10441.5 kB/s)
ftp> bye
```

---

Command | Meaning
--- | ---
`ftp fileserver` | Invoke the `ftp` program and have it connect the FTP server `fileserver`
`anonymous` | Login name. After the login prompt, a password prompt will appear. Some servers will accept a blank password; others will require a password in the form of an email address. In that case, try something like user@example.
`cd` | change directory
`ls` | list directory
`lcd Desktop` | Change the directory on the local system to ~/Desktop. In the example, the ftp program was invoked when the working directory was ~. This command changes the working directory to ~/Desktop.
`get` | transfer file from remote server to local system
`bye` | Log off the remote server and end the ftp program session. The commands quit and exit may also be used.

- `lftp` is a Better ftp

---

- `wget` : It is useful for downloading content from both web and FTP sites. Single files, multiple files, and even entire sites can be downloaded. 

```
└─$ wget -r -A jpg https://pixabay.com/
```

---

- `ssh` : SSH solves the two basic problems of secure communication with a remote host.
    - It authenticates that the remote host is who it says it is (thus preventing so-called man-in-the-middle attacks).
    - It encrypts all of the communications between the local and remote hosts.
    - `ssh remote-sys` : To connect to a remote host named remote-sys
    - `ssh username@remote-sys` : login with specific username
    - `ssh remote-sys <command>`: to execute just a single command

```
└─$ ssh remote-sys
```

---

- `scp` - (secure copy). copy files from local host to remote host

```
└─$ scp remote-sys:document.txt .
me@remote-sys's password:

```
---
- `sftp` : SSH file-copying program

```
└─$ sftp remote-sys
Connecting to remote-sys...
vishwas@remote-sys's password:
sftp> ls
ubuntu-8.04-desktop-i386.iso
sftp> lcd Desktop
sftp> get ubuntu-18.04-desktop-i386.iso
Fetching /home/vishwas/ubuntu-18.04-desktop-i386.iso to ubuntu-18.04-desktop-i386.iso
/home/vishwas/ubuntu-18.04-desktop-i386.iso 100%  699MB   7.4MB/s   01:35
sftp> bye
```

---

## searchin for the files like the Scriptkiddy

- `locate` : Find files by name
- `find` : Search for files in a directory hierarchy
- `xargs ` : Build and execute command lines from standard input
- `touch` : Change file times
- `stat`: Display file or file system status

---

- `find` : find files the hard way
    - `find ~` : to produce a listing of our home directory
    - `find ~ | wc -l` : to count the number of files.
    - `find ~ -type d | wc -l` : `-type d` limit the search to directories
    - `find ~ -type f | wc -l` : `-type f` limit the search to regular files 
    - `find ~ -type f -name "*.JPG" -size +1M | wc -l`: all the regular files that match the wildcard pattern *.JPG and are larger than one megabyte

File type | Description
--- | ---
`b` | Block special device file
`c` | Character special device file
`d` | Directory
`f` | Regular file
`l` | Symbolic link


- find size units

Character | Unit
--- | ---
`b` | 512-byte blocks. This is default if no unit is specified.
`c` | Bytes
`w` | 2-byte words
`k` | Kilobytes (units of 1,024 bytes)
`M` | Megabytes (units of 1,048,576 bytes)
`c` | Gigabytes (units of 1,073,741,824 bytes)

---

- `xargs` -  It accepts input from standard input and converts it into an argument list for a specified command

```
find ~ -type f -name 'foo*' -print | xargs ls -l

```

---

Reference:

https://phoenixnap.com/kb/linux-commands-cheat-sheet

https://developers.redhat.com/cheat-sheets/intermediate-linux-cheat-sheet

