This section inspired from Aravind Putrevu's video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0f_DI4Ohp5M
# Lets learn Vim in Action
========================

## Vim Editor is a Prowerful Programming IDE or the tool for the Programing and debugging online on the terminal


**- Why to learn Vi?**
  - Vim is almost always available in terminal. Absolute necessary and good to know for DevOps and Debuggin in Production(yes its true😂😂😂).

  - Vim is lightweight and fast and can be utilized in Multipurpose operations.

- `vi` : Starting Vi - starting in the terminal
- `vim (name of file. extension)` : starting the editing or the creation of the file


### Ways to Operate on Vim


- `:q` : Exiting Vim - Press escape key when you want to move away from the vim editor and perform this operation
- `:q!` : force exiting vim Editor - Press escape key when you want to move away from the vim editor and perform this operation


- press `i` : to enter editing mode - to edit the file
- press `ESC`: to exit insert mode
- `:w` : to save work
- `:wq` : to save work and quit

## Some Operation that is required while doing production level yaml debugging


**- Moving Cursor Around:**

Key | Moves the cursor
--- | ---
`l` or `right arrow` | Right one character
`h` or `left arrow` | Left one character
`j` or `down arrow` | Down one line.
`k` or `up arrow` | Up one line
`0`- (zero) | To the beginning of the current line.
`^` | To the first non-whitespace character on the current line
`$` | To the end of the current line
`w` | To the beginning of the next word or punctuation character.
`W` | To the beginning of the next word, ignoring punctuation characters
`b` | To the beginning of the previous word or punctuation character.
`B` | To the beginning of the previous word, ignoring punctuation characters.
`CTRL-F or Page Down` | Down one page
`CTRL-B or PAGE UP` | Up one page
`numberG` | To line number. For example, 1G moves to the first line of the file
`G` | To the last line of the file.

*If you ask me I still ues arrows to navigate and I will still use come control shortcuts for operating on Kubernetes.*

**- Some tips and tricks while we are experimenting in Terminal**

- `u` : undo the last change that you made.
- `a` : append text at the end of the line.
- `o` : Insert line below the current line.
- `O` : Insert line above the current line.
- `x` : will delete a character at the cursor location.

**-Some commands for Deleting**

Command | Deletes
--- | ---
`x` | The current character
`3x` | The current character and the next two characters
`dd` | The current line
`5dd` | The current line and the next four lines
`dW` | From the current cursor position to the beginning of the next word
`d$` | From the current cursor location to the end of the current line
`d0` | From the current cursor location to the beginning of the line
`d^` | From the current cursor location to the first non-whitespace character in the line.
`dG` | From the current line to the end of the file
`d20G` | From the current line to the twentieth line of the file

- `y`: is used to yank (copy) text
- `d`: cut the text
- `p`: paste the contents


Command | Copies
---|---
`yy` | The current line
`5yy` | The current line and the next four lines
`yW` | From the current cursor position to the beginning of the next word
`y$` | From the current cursor location to the end of the current line
`y0` | From the current cursor location to the beginning of the line
`y^` | From the current cursor location to the first non-whitespace character in the line
`yG` | From the current line to the end of the file
`y20G` | From the current line to the twentieth line of the file.

- `J (capital j)`: to join lines
- `f`: search within a line
- `/Line`: search within a file
- `:%s/Line/line/g`: global search and replace


Refernce : https://vim.rtorr.com/ - you can also learn some more commands here.