# Git Cheatsheet

## Git configuration
`git config --global user.name “Your Name”`


Set the name that will be attached to your commits and tags.
---
`git config --global user.email “you@example.com”`


Set the e-mail address that will be attached to your commits and tags.
---
`git config --global color.ui auto`


Enable some colorization of Git output.
====
## Starting A Project
`git init [project name]`


Create a new local repository. If [project name] is provided, Git will create a new directory name [project name] and will initialize a repository inside it. If [project name] is not provided, then a new repository is initialized in the current directory.
---
`git clone [project url]`


Downloads a project with the entire history from the remote repository.
===
## Updating
`git remote add [alias] [url]`


Add a git URL as an alias
---
`git fetch [alias]`


Fetch down all the branches from that Git remote
---
`git merge [alias]/[branch]`


Merge a remote branch into your current branch to bring it up to date
---
`git push [alias] [branch]`


Transmit local branch commits to the remote repository branch
---
`git pull`


Fetch and merge any commits from the tracking remote branch
===
## Git branching model
`git branch [-a]`


List all local branches in repository. With -a: show all branches (with remote).
---
`git branch [branch_name]`


Create new branch, referencing the current HEAD. $ git checkout [-b][branch_name] Switch working directory to the specified branch. With -b: Git will create the specified branch if it does not exist.
---
`git merge [from name]`


Join specified [from name] branch into your current branch (the one you are on currently).
---
`git branch -d [name]`


Remove selected branch, if it is already merged into any other. -D instead of -d forces deletion.
---
`git rm [file]`


Remove file from working directory and staging area.
---
`git stash`


Put current changes in your working directory into stash for later use.
---
`git stash pop`


Apply stored stash content into working directory, and clear stash.
---
`git stash drop`


Delete a specific stash from all your previous stashes.
=========
## Stage & Snapshot
`git status`


Displays the status of your working directory. Options include new, staged, and modified files. It will retrieve branch name, current commit identifier,and changes pending commit.
---
`git add [file]`


Add a file to the staging area. Use in place of the full file path to add all changed files from the current directory down into the directory tree.
---
`git diff [file]`


Show changes between working directory and staging area.
---
`git diff --staged [file]`


Shows any changes between the staging area and the repository.

`git checkout -- [file]`


Discard changes in working directory. This operation is unrecoverable.

`git reset [file]`


Revert your repository to a previous known working state. $ git commit Create a new commit from changes added to the staging area. The commit must have a message!

## Rewrite History
`git rebase [branch]`


Apply any commits of current branch ahead of specified one
---
`git reset --hard [commit]`

Clear staging area, rewrite working tree from specified commit
---
`git revert [commit sha]`


Create a new commit, reverting changes from the specified commit. It generates an inversion of changes.
===
## Temporary commits
`git stash`


Save modified and staged changes
---
`git stash list`


List stack-order of stashed file changes
---
`git stash pop`


Write working from top of stash stack
---
`git stash drop`


Discard the changes from top of stash stack
---
`git log [-n count]`


List commit history of current branch. -n count limits list to last n commits.
---
`git log --oneline --graph --decorate`


An overview with reference labels and history graph. One commit per line.
---
`git log ref..`


List commits that are present on the current branch and not merged into ref. A ref can be a branch name or a tag name.
---
`git log ..ref`


List commit that are present on ref and not merged into current branch.
---
`git reflog`


List operations (e.g. checkouts or commits) made on local repository.
---
`git log --pretty="format:%H"`

This makes the logs more readable and pretier than before.
