DevSecOps is a new word that has emerged in the software industry as a result of rising cybercrime and cybersecurity risks in recent years. It is essential for developers and businesses to implement DevSecOps in order to stay up with the demands of contemporary application and software development.

We develop, implement, and maintain apps as technology builders and maintainers to assist our end users by making their daily lives a little bit simpler and more efficient. We must take all necessary precautions to secure these end users as they navigate the online world since they entrust us with their time and personal information.


# Description of DevSecOps.

Development, security, and operations are the three terms that make up DevSecOps. It is the implementation of security from the very beginning of the lifetime of developing software or applications.

In the past, security was introduced to an application after the development stage and towards the end of its lifecycle. The traditional development methodology became slowed down by the introduction of cloud platforms, microservices, and containers. As developers embraced agile and DevOps practises for the creation and deployment of new applications, security was unable to keep up with the frequent releases.

By addressing problems as they arise inside Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) pipelines, DevSecOps integrates security with DevOps.

Rapid application development has been made possible by the rise of cloud platforms, dynamic provisioning, and shared resources. Development cycles are quick and frequent thanks to DevOps. Iterations happen every few weeks or maybe even daily. Developers and security engineers may connect the potential of agile approaches with DevSecOps.

Throughout the product lifecycle, DevSecOps provides businesses and developers with a number of advantages:

Iterations are accelerated by including security into DevOps.
DevSecOps aids in the creation of high-quality products that are compliant.
It aids in the critical thinking, comprehension of security needs, and proper initial software design of developers.
Cycle time is decreased because security console configuration is no longer done manually.


Throughout the DevOps cycle, security features like firewalls, vulnerability scanners, and identity and access management can be automated.
Early vulnerability detection helps to prevent cyberattacks.
The collaboration and communication between teams are improved.


**Refer more information on the products from companies like [Snyk](https://snyk.io/),[Aqua Security](aquasec.com) and many more companis that provide us with the security tools and services to build the best platform engienering practices.**